MemCoT: Test-Time Scaling through Memory-Driven Chain-of-Thought
Large Language Models (LLMs) still suffer from severe hallucinations and catastrophic forgetting during causal reasoning over massive, fragmented long contexts. Existing memory mechanisms typically treat retrieval as a static, single-step “passive matching” process, leading to severe semantic dilution and contextual fragmentation. To overcome these fundamental bottlenecks, we propose MemCoT, a test-time memory scaling framework that redefines the reasoning process by transforming long-context reasoning into an iterative, stateful information search. MemCoT introduces a multi-view long-term memory perception module that enables Zoom-In evidence localization and Zoom-Out contextual expansion, allowing the model to first identify where relevant evidence resides and then reconstruct the surrounding causal structure necessary for reasoning. In addition, MemCoT employs a task-conditioned dual short-term memory system composed of semantic state memory and episodic trajectory memory. This short-term memory records historical search decisions and dynamically guides query decomposition and pruning across iterations. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that MemCoT establishes a state-of-the-art performance. Empowered by MemCoT, several open- and closed-source models achieve SOTA performance on the LoCoMo benchmark and LongMemEval-S benchmark. Our code is available at https://github.com/Haodong-Lei-Ray/MemCoT.

PathRelax: Parallel-Path Relaxed Speculative Jacobi Decoding for Accelerating Auto-Regressive Text-to-Image Generation
The growing need for high-resolution image generation in autoregressive text-to-image models has resulted in extended token sequences, significantly increasing computational costs and inference times. However, existing state-of-the-art methods for accelerating autoregressive text-to-image models rely on chain-structured draft token sequences, leading to inefficient draft token search and limited acceptance lengths. To address this, we propose parallel-path cross-relaxed speculative Jacobi decoding (\textbf{PathSpec}), a novel framework that enhances efficiency through a multi-sequence draft tree structure. Our parallel-path speculative Jacobi decoding (\textbf{PathExplore}) expands the token search space, achieving a higher speedup ratio without sacrificing image quality. Additionally, we introduce cross-path relaxed verification (\textbf{PathRelax}) that exploits semantic similarities across sequences to further boost token acceptance rates. Evaluated on the Parti-Prompts, MSCOCO2017, and T2ICompBench datasets, our method achieves a speedup ratio of 4.14 $\times$, 3.95$\times$, and 4.18$\times$, respectively. Remarkably, PathExplore, without any relaxed sampling, outperforms relaxed sampling methods in the speedup ratio, such as GSD and LANTERN. Moreover, PathRelax's relaxation mechanism can be seamlessly integrated with other relaxation techniques, enabling further acceleration and providing an efficient solution for real-time text-to-image generation. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/Haodong-Lei-Ray/PathSpec}.

Fast Inference of Visual Autoregressive Model with Adjacency-Adaptive Dynamical Draft Trees
Autoregressive (AR) image models achieve diffusion-level quality but suffer from sequential inference, requiring approximately 2,000 steps for a 576x576 image. Speculative decoding with draft trees accelerates LLMs yet underperforms on visual AR models due to spatially varying token prediction difficulty. We identify a key obstacle in applying speculative decoding to visual AR models: inconsistent acceptance rates across draft trees due to varying prediction difficulties in different image regions. We propose Adjacency-Adaptive Dynamical Draft Trees (ADT-Tree), an adjacency-adaptive dynamic draft tree that dynamically adjusts draft tree depth and width by leveraging adjacent token states and prior acceptance rates. ADT-Tree initializes via horizontal adjacency, then refines depth/width via bisectional adaptation, yielding deeper trees in simple regions and wider trees in complex ones. The empirical evaluations on MS-COCO 2017 and PartiPrompts demonstrate that ADT-Tree achieves speedups of 3.13xand 3.05x, respectively. Moreover, it integrates seamlessly with relaxed sampling methods such as LANTERN, enabling further acceleration. Code is available at https://github.com/Haodong-Lei-Ray/ADT-Tree.